Practice Programs

Write a program which tells you:

how many hours are in a year?
how many minutes are in a decade?
how many seconds old are you?
how many chocolates do you hope to eat in your life?
Warning: This part of the program could take a while to compute!
Here's a tougher question:

If I am 1298 million seconds old, how old am I?

Write a program which asks for a person's first name, then middle, then last. Finally, it should greet the person using their full name.
Write a program which asks for a person's favorite number. Have your program add one to the number, then suggest the result as a bigger and better favorite number. (Do be tactful about it, though.)

Write an Angry Boss program. It should rudely ask what you want. Whatever you answer, the Angry Boss should yell it back to you, and then fire you. For example, if you type in I want a raise., it should yell back WHADDAYA MEAN "I WANT A RAISE."?!?  YOU'RE FIRED!!
So here's something for you to do in order to play around more with center, ljust, and rjust: Write a program which will display a Table of Contents

"99 bottles of beer on the wall..." Write a program which prints out the lyrics to that beloved classic, that field-trip favorite: "99 Bottles of Beer on the Wall."
Write a Deaf Grandma program. Whatever you say to grandma (whatever you type in), she should respond with HUH?!  SPEAK UP, SONNY!, unless you shout it (type in all capitals). If you shout, she can hear you (or at least she thinks so) and yells back, NO, NOT SINCE 1938! To make your program really believable, have grandma shout a different year each time; maybe any year at random between 1930 and 1950. (This part is optional, and would be much easier if you read the section on Ruby's random number generator at the end of the methods chapter.) You can't stop talking to grandma until you shout BYE.
Hint: Don't forget about chomp! 'BYE'with an Enter is not the same as 'BYE' without one!
Hint 2: Try to think about what parts of your program should happen over and over again. All of those should be in your while loop.
Extend your Deaf Grandma program: What if grandma doesn't want you to leave? When you shout BYE, she could pretend not to hear you. Change your previous program so that you have to shout BYE three times in a row. Make sure to test your program: if you shout BYE three times, but not in a row, you should still be talking to grandma.
Leap Years. Write a program which will ask for a starting year and an ending year, and then puts all of the leap years between them (and including them, if they are also leap years). Leap years are years divisible by four (like 1984 and 2004). However, years divisible by 100 are not leap years (such as 1800 and 1900) unless they are divisible by 400 (like 1600 and 2000, which were in fact leap years). (Yes, it's all pretty confusing, but not as confusing as having July in the middle of the winter, which is what would eventually happen.)

Write the program we talked about at the very beginning of this chapter.
Hint: There's a lovely array method which will give you a sorted version of an array: sort. Use it!
Try writing the above program without using the sort method. A large part of programming is solving problems, so get all the practice you can!
Rewrite your Table of Contents program (from the chapter on methods). Start the program with an array holding all of the information for your Table of Contents (chapter names, page numbers, etc.). Then print out the information from the array in a beautifully formatted Table of Contents.